[Music]
Airlines explain how ticket prices are
formed have you ever asked yourself why
the heck are air fare so expensive
well airlines are now letting us in on
how they come up with these prices but
knowing the why and how isn't gonna help
save money so stick around and we'll
share some strategies to help you fly
cheaper oh and for your in-flight
entertainment watch out for three
lightbulbs hidden throughout this video
be the first to find them all and
comment below the time is when they
appear aircraft fuel 26% you might still
believe that planes fly with the power
of magic but the truth is they use jet
fuel and it happens to be one of the
most expensive factors in ticket pricing
different types of planes need a certain
amount of fuel and this information can
easily be found on the website of the
airline or the planes manufacturer to
show you just how expensive fuelling the
plane is here's a simple calculation to
make a 10 hour flight it takes a jumbo
jet about 70 tons of fuel which costs
around forty two thousand five hundred
dollars man and I thought gas prices
were high passenger and luggage services
26% first off this includes passenger
services on the flight such as food
water blankets entertainment and so on
loading storing and transporting the
luggage both on the plane and at the
airport is counted here as well and you
have to consider call centers websites
statistics and customer service finally
working with the plane itself costs a
lot of money like prepping it for
takeoff safety checks parking it and
things like that
aircraft service 16% this has to do with
insurance and minor repairs on the plane
it might include painting and routine
maintenance in general salaries 10% of
course all the airlines employees like
the pilots flight attendants and other
staff like to get paid for their hard
work
depreciation and leasing 8% depreciation
is a gradual decrease in the cost of the
plane itself due to its aging and wear
and tear over time if the plane is
property then these costs are covered by
the owner but if the plane is rented and
this is a
the common thing known as aviation
leasing then it's paid by the person
who's using the plane at the time aka
you advertisement and administrative
costs five percent this is the money
that airlines use for marketing
promotion taxes and some other expenses
these costs can fluctuate depending on
the situation in the country where the
airline is based air navigation fees and
meteorological support nine percent
weather conditions can affect flight
schedules or even cause serious problems
you'd rather avoid cooperating with
meteorological bureaus helps Airlines
minimize the risks and uncomfortable
flight conditions caused by the weather
keeping track of the aircraft during the
flight and payments to airports are also
included in the final nine percent of
the ticket cost knowing the factors that
go into ticket pricing might help you
understand why air fares are so high but
I'm sure you still want to know how you
can save some money right of course you
can't do anything about the things we
just covered but you can change the
following one use comparison sites
you've probably heard of them Orbitz
kayak Travelocity Priceline and so on
these price comparison sites known as
aggregators help you search the whole
internet for the best deal they compare
offers from all the different airlines
and make a nice convenient list of
available flights for you it's basically
the easiest and most reliable way to
find tickets at the lowest price you
need only one website that does all the
searching for you but you really
shouldn't depend on just one comparison
site they all can sort the results
differently so we recommend using
different aggregators the price
difference can be from 2% to 7% of the
full price of the ticket Plus these
websites have a lot of convenient
features like email subscriptions to the
best offers bonuses and other cool stuff
that can help you save a lot of money to
join travel groups on social media
sometimes you can learn more useful
information from fellow travelers
looking for good deals rather than
relying on Airlines or pop-up ads
Facebook and other social networking
sites as well as travel themed forums
and pages have special groups where
people exchange their experiences with
different airlines subscribe to travel
bloggers who often have giveaways when
they part
with major airlines you might not win a
free trip but at least save some coin
with their discount codes plus you'll
get a great source of travel inspiration
3 choose flights with connections direct
flights are almost always more expensive
than those with connections because you
know fuel consumption at all and you can
actually plan your connecting flights in
smart and productive ways travelers
often use stopovers which are
connections lasting longer than 24 hours
this is a great way to see more and save
a lot of money after you buy a
connecting flight ticket you need to
apply for a stopover but before you do
that make sure that your flight has this
feature for use the Saturday night rule
according to this rule if you spend the
night from Saturday to Sunday at your
destination the tickets will be much
cheaper this is due to airline's price
discrimination against those traveling
on business business travelers usually
have to keep to a pretty strict
itinerary and they're more willing to
pay higher prices if it means they can
spend the weekend at home tourists
however aren't so restricted so use this
to your advantage
5 fly on the right days many airlines
change the ticket prices depending on
the departure days most of the time the
cheapest days are Tuesday Wednesday and
Thursday from Friday to Sunday and on
holidays prices are higher this little
trick doesn't work for popular business
flights though because business
travellers usually blog flights on
weekdays 6 change the dates if specific
dates don't really matter to you play
around with the departure and arrival
dates a little a 3 5 or even 7 day
difference can save you a lot of money
some comparison sites have special
calendars for this purpose and if your
travel dates really don't matter for
example you just need to fly some time
in a certain month you can use the same
calendars they'll show you the prices
for all the tickets available that month
be flexible it's worth it and try to
travel off season 2 if it's possible 7
try different destinations booking sites
don't only help you pick a more
affordable date but a cheaper
destination too if you're flying to
Europe for example you'll see that
tickets through airports that are
literally an
hours drive away from each other may
come at totally different prices if you
have enough time embrace this
opportunity to see another city or even
country eight sign up for loyalty
programs by signing up for loyalty
programs and saving your frequent flyer
miles you can get coupons for duty-free
purchases free tickets and discounts on
hotels practically all airlines offer
these programs to their loyal clients 9
read the fine print when booking tickets
we recommend thoroughly reading all the
terms and conditions some airlines and
travel sites like to sneak in different
payment fees it's a good idea to stay
cautious and attentive 10 eliminate
extra costs pack wisely and weigh your
bag at home before going to the airport
so that you aren't slapped with any
unexpected fees you can even make double
sure by traveling with the carry-on only
bring your own snacks if you're
traveling with a carrier that sells food
on board if you can avoid cheque or
heavy bag fees and paying for in-flight
meals you'll get a ticket at the lowest
most basic price do you have any special
tricks up your sleeve on purchasing
plane tickets share with us in the
comment section also let us know if you
managed to find the three light bulbs
give us a like if you found this video
useful and subscribe to our Channel
stay with us on the bright side